Newsletters: add 350 (2025-04-18) (#2268)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2025-04-18-newsletter.md

Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [LDK #3593][] Implement a way to do BOLT 12 Proof of Payment

- [BOLTs #1242][] Make payment_secret mandatory and ASSUMED

## Correction

Last week's newsletter [story][news349 ss] about SwiftSync contained
several errors and confusing statements.

- *No accumulator used:* we described SwiftSync as using a cryptographic
  accumulator, which is incorrect.  An accumulator would allow testing
  whether or not a transaction output (TXO) was a part of a set.
  SwiftSync doesn't need to do that.  Instead, it adds a value
  representing a TXO to an aggregate when the TXO is created and
  subtracts the same value when the TXO is destroyed (spent).  After
  performing this for all TXOs that were supposed to be spent before the
  SwiftSync terminal block, the node checks that the aggregate is
  zero---indicating that all created TXOs were later spent.

- *Parallel block validation does not require assumevalid:* we described

>   one way parallel validation could work with SwiftSync, in which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  one-way parallel validation could work with SwiftSync, in which
```

  scripts up to the terminal SwiftSync block were not
  validated---similar to how Bitcoin Core works today during initial
  sync with _assumevalid_.  However, previous scripts could be validated
  with SwiftSync, although this would likely require changes to the
  Bitcoin P2P protocol to optionally include extra data with blocks.
  Bitcoin Core nodes already store this data for any block they also
  store, so we don't think adding a P2P message extension would be
  difficult if it was expected that a significant number of people
  wanted to use SwiftSync with assumevalid disabled.

- *Parallel block validation is for different reasons than Utreexo:*

>   we wrote that SwiftSync is able to parallel validate blocks for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  we wrote that SwiftSync is able to parallel-validate blocks for
```
or "able to validate blocks in parallel for"
or "able to validate blocks concurrently for"

  similar reasons than Utreexo, but they take different approaches.
  Utreexo validates a block (or series of blocks for efficiency) by
  starting with a commitment to the UTXO set, performing all of the
  changes to the UTXO set, and producing a commitment to the new UTXO
  set.  This allows the work of validation to be split based on the
  number of CPU threads; for example: one thread validates the first
  thousand blocks and another thread validates the second thousand
  blocks.  At the end of validation, the node checks that the commitment
  at the end of the first thousand blocks is the same as the commitment
  it started with for the second thousand blocks.

  SwiftSync uses an aggregate state that allows subtracting before
  adding.  Imagine a TXO is created in block 1 and spent in block 2.  If
  we process block 2 first, we subtract the representation of the TXO
  from the aggregate.  When we later process block 1, we add the
  representation of the TXO to the aggregate.  The net effect is zero,

>   which is what gets checked at the end of SwiftSync validation.

Reviewer: It is, and it's also a brilliant idea. It reminds me of an interview question I learned years ago that, admittedly, is a bit of a trick question (and also doesn't solve a practical problem): You're given an array of integers, and it's guaranteed that every value that appears in the array at all appears exactly twice, except for a single value that appears once. The array is not sorted in any way. So it could be: [7, 10, 6, 10, 8, 8, 7]. 

What's the most efficient way to find the value that appears once (in that example, the 6)? 

You could iterate the array, looking up each value in a map; if it exists, remove it; if it doesn't, add it. The one entry left at the end is the one you're looking for.

But hint: the problem doesn't say you need to know the _position_ of the once-occurring value. So, a better way is to simply XOR all the values together! (That is, use an accumulator!)

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #350'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2025/04/18/
name: 2025-04-18-newsletter
slug: 2025-04-18-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter includes our regular sections describing recent
changes to services and client software, announcments of new releases

> and release candidates, and descriptions on notable changes to popular

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and release candidates, and descriptions of notable changes to popular
```

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

- **Bitcoin Knots version 28.1.knots20250305 released:**
  This Bitcoin Knots [release][knots 28.1] includes support for [signing
  messages][topic generic signmessage] for a segwit or taproot address as well
  as verifying [BIP137][], [BIP322][], and Electrum signed messages, among other
  changes.

- **PSBTv2 explorer announced:**
  [Bitcoin PSBTv2 Explorer][bip370 website] inspects [PSBTs][topic psbt] encoded
  using the version 2 data format.

- **LNbits v1.0.0 released:**
  The [LNbits][lnbits github] software provides accounting and additional
  functionality on top of a variety of underlying Lightning Network wallets.

- **The Mempool Open Source Project® v3.2.0 released:**
  The [v3.2.0 release][mempool 3.2.0] adds support for [v3 transactions][topic
  v3 transaction relay], anchor outputs, broadcasting of [1P1C packages][topic
  package relay], visualizing Stratum mining pool jobs, and other features.

- **Coinbase MPC library released:**
  The [Coinbase MPC][coinbase mpc blog] project is a [C++ library][coinbase mpc

>   github] for securing keys for use in multi-party computation (MPC) schemes including

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  github] for securing keys for use in multi-party computation (MPC) schemes, including
```

  a custom secp256k1 implementation.

- **Lightning Network liquidity tool released:**
  [Hydrus][hydrus github] uses the state of LN network, including past
  performance, to automatically open and close Lightning channels for LND. It
  also supports [batching][topic payment batching].

- **Versioned Storage Service announced:**

>   The [Versioned Storage Service (VSS) framework][vss blog] is an open source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The [Versioned Storage Service (VSS) framework][vss blog] is an open-source
```

>   cloud storage solution for Lightning and Bitcoin wallet state data with a focus on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  cloud storage solution for Lightning and Bitcoin wallet state data focusing on
```

  non-custodial wallets.

- **Fuzz testing tool for Bitcoin nodes:**
  [Fuzzamoto][fuzzamoto github] is a framework for using fuzz testing to find

>   bugs in different implementations of the Bitcoin protocol through external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  bugs in different Bitcoin protocol implementations through external
```

  interfaces like P2P and RPC.

> - **Bitcoin Control Board components open sourced:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Bitcoin Control Board components open-sourced:**
```

>   Braiins [announced][braiins tweet] the open source availability of some of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Braiins [announced][braiins tweet] the open-source availability of some of the
```

  hardware and software components of their BCB100 mining control board.

## Releases and release candidates

_New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates._

- [Bitcoin Core 29.0][] is the latest major version of the network's
  predominate full node.  Its [release notes][bcc rn] describe several
  significant improvements: replacement of the default-off UPnP feature (responsible
  in part for several past security vulnerabilities) with a NAT-PMP
  option (also defaulting to off), improved fetching of parents of
  orphan transactions that may increase the reliability of Bitcoin
  Core's current [package relay][topic package relay] support, slightly
  more space in default block templates (potentially improving miner
  revenue), improvements in avoiding accidental [timewarps][topic

>   time warp] for miners that might accidentally result in revenue loss
>   if timewarps are forbidden in a [future soft fork][topic consensus
>   cleanup], and a migration of the build system from autotools to cmake.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  time warp] for miners that might result in accidental revenue loss
  if a [future soft fork][topic consensus
  cleanup] forbids timewarps, and migration of the build system from autotools to cmake.
```

  the `s` (payment secret) field is absent. Previously, the specification only
  made it mandatory for writers (receivers), and readers could ignore `s` fields
  with incorrect lengths (see Newsletter [#163][news163 secret]). This PR also
  updates the payment secret feature to `ASSUMED` status in [BOLT9][].

## Correction

Last week's newsletter [story][news349 ss] about SwiftSync contained
several errors and confusing statements.

- *No accumulator used:* we described SwiftSync as using a cryptographic
  accumulator, which is incorrect.  A cryptographic accumulator would allow testing
  whether or not an individual transaction output (TXO) was a part of a set.
  SwiftSync doesn't need to do that.  Instead, it adds a value
  representing a TXO to an aggregate when the TXO is created and
  subtracts the same value when the TXO is destroyed (spent).  After
  performing this for all TXOs that were supposed to be spent before the
  SwiftSync terminal block, the node checks that the aggregate is
  zero---indicating that all created TXOs were later spent.

- *Parallel block validation does not require assumevalid:* we described

>   one way that parallel validation could work with SwiftSync, in which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  one way parallel validation could work with SwiftSync, in which
```

  scripts up to the terminal SwiftSync block were not
  validated---similar to how Bitcoin Core works today during initial
  sync with _assumevalid_.  However, previous scripts could be validated
  with SwiftSync, although this would likely require changes to the
  Bitcoin P2P protocol to optionally include extra data with blocks.
  Bitcoin Core nodes already store this data for any block they also
  store, so we don't think adding a P2P message extension would be
  difficult if it was expected that a significant number of people
  wanted to use SwiftSync with assumevalid disabled.

- *Parallel block validation is for different reasons than Utreexo:*

>   we wrote that SwiftSync is able to validate blocks in parallel for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  we wrote that SwiftSync can validate blocks in parallel for
```

>   reasons similar to those of Utreexo, but they take different approaches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  reasons similar to those of [Utreexo][topic utreexo], but they take different approaches.
```

  Utreexo validates a block (or series of blocks for efficiency) by
  starting with a commitment to the UTXO set, performing all of the
  changes to the UTXO set, and producing a commitment to the new UTXO
  set.  This allows the work of validation to be split based on the
  number of CPU threads; for example: one thread validates the first

>   thousand blocks and another thread validates the second thousand

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  thousand blocks while another thread validates the second thousand
```
